# moreOfThis
more Of This is a durational web performance that attempts to recreate a social media algorithm transparently by engaging the audience members, one-at-a-time, with short recordings of gestural rituals found in contemporary life.

The title is implicated through an additive interaction where the audience gives me set tasks to complete. The audience lands on a page where I’ve devised 30-second choreographic solo sketches shown from four different angles. The audience is then asked to select and submit 3 gestures out of 179 possibilities I’ve prepared in video form. In the following days I iterate submitted rituals and adjusted my behavior according to the choices of the audience. I’ve provided a public journal of my thoughts throughout the process.

This project was born out of an idea for a projection mapping tool that would assist the choreographic process by abstracting individual dancers as simple tangible geometry. When my initial excitement about this idea faded I came to recognize that through minimal representation I was controlling and reducing some very human qualities about the moving body.

To push back on this oversight, this piece poses a collective vigilance and control where the audience is asked to participate in a behavioral sculpting. This year I’ve been interested in systems that express meaning through the physical movement, particularly thinking about how the spectrum of active, docile and ambivalent people are augmented through a digital presence. How can I expose the level of control that is expected not only of the dancing body, but performing bodies as digital commodities? My hope through this process is to consider how social algorithms and surveillance technologies can impose identity archetypes through our bodies. Past project’s that are highly influential to this one include Michelle Ellesworth’s Choreography Generator and Ai Wei Wei’s reaction to his house arrest. I am indebted to the artists and researchers that have created a lineage in this intersection: Lauren Lee McCarthy, the NUUM collective, Sydney Skybetter, cari ann shim sham*, and Maya Man to name a few.

more Of This was created during my time as a graduate candidate at NYU's Interactive Media Arts program.
